Okay, so working with teams.
It's one thing if you're working
by yourself on a project,
your commit messages and things don't have
to be [LAUGH] that useful for teams and
you can make all the decisions you want.
But when you're working with other people,
there's some things you might wanna be
aware of with team concerns and processes.
So I have some ideas around
how to make this a team sport.
Because that's how we're gonna
make the biggest impact,
as many of us are chipping in as possible.
So, sort of the reality of some of
the accessibility efforts that we put in
are that we have to have accountability.
We have to actually make
it a requirement and
make it part of the definition of done.
And so you have to kind of, get your
leadership team on board if you can so
that you have time to
actually spend on it.
I mean, this is gonna be
a negotiation in some cases where
it might have to get worked on
after a breaking change ships.
Like you might need to decouple fixes.
I had this come up the other day where I
really wanted to rip out a component that
was super inaccessible, but
there was a display bug that I was
trying to like get the time,
the cycles to work on it.
I was having issues and so
I'm gonna have to decouple things,
like fix up the display issue and
then come back in, in the next sprint and
do the accessibility work.
So sometimes you don't get to just
rip it all out and do it, you have to
negotiate how to make it part of a
definition of done that people agree with.
Yeah, it's part of the reality
of doing this stuff sometimes.
And so part of this also is like,
who takes responsibility if something
is inaccessible gets shipped?
Like we heard a story
earlier about a lawsuit.
Those are super common and so sometimes
those happen after things have shipped
that it's not a surprise at all because
you knew it was inaccessible and
you tried to do something about it.
it's like, well,
who's held accountable for it?
It really should be the decision
makers that said, nope,
we're gonna ship it, I hear you,
we're not gonna tackle it this cycle,
that person has to be held accountable.
So these things will come up,
it's not always pretty, but
we want to document things as much as
possible, like document your findings,
find what you tested at that time.
If you have to put it down, but
you've done some of the preliminary work,
keep your code and
a branch, have some documentation of,
what was the state of it.
So that if you do have to come back to it,
at least you're not totally starting over,
that can be helpful.
When you're doing code reviews,
this is a really great time to try and
get accessibility addressed in the moment
cuz we don't wanna add to our debt.
I just accrued some accessibility debt
at my own job this week, it happens.
But when you're reviewing people's code,
that might be the time for
people to make some changes and hopefully
you can get stuff in at that time and
not have to come back to it.
There's sort of an art to how
you provide this feedback,
cuz we want people to
want to work with us,
even though we're the bearers
of bad news sometimes.
We don't wanna make people feel bad
cuz we want them to fix their stuff,
so we have to be tactful.
[LAUGH] But surface it at the right time,
like, hey, we need to make this click
event, put it on a real button so
that a keyboard user can operate it.
That's one I see all the time,
where there's click events on divs,
and if they can't fix it right then,
then open up an issue that
will get put on the backlog and
make some good trouble over it.
We don't wanna be like, we're going to be
squeaky wheel about it in the way that you
can in your own work context.
But we want to make sure that things
don't just languish in the backlog and
never get done, so you have to kinda
like find that right balance of,
is this the right time to do it?
I understand the team's
under a lot of pressure,
how are we actually gonna make
sure that this gets fixed so
it doesn't just get shipped inaccessibly
and go out like that way forever?
Code reviews.
And then use consistent tooling and
processes.
If you're all using the AXE extension,
pay attention to what version it's on,
make sure you're all updated.
Or in your issues if you have
AXE results or something,
maybe document what version the API
was on, that can be helpful to know so
that if something changes, you have
a track record of how you tested it.
Even just how you tested it,
tab into the page with a keyboard,
turn on the ax extension, whatever
steps you took to reproduce that issue,
put it in your issues,
in your pull requests.
I find people are very light on
documentation [LAUGH] in PRs,
or pull requests, or issues,
so just sharing what steps
to take to reproduce an issue
in general can be super useful.
And there's a whole,
as you get into accessibility maturity,
companies that are much more serious about
it and have to have more attention on it,
there are tons of tools by all of
the major accessibility companies that
you can sort of, upscale into some
of those paid tools if you need to.
Question.
>> How much are we asked to estimate
when factoring in accessibility?
What percentage of additional
time should we consider adding?
>> Good question.
The figure that I heard working with
a very large tech company was around 30%.
And I think they were being kind of
generous about it just because they're
a big company, it's a slow-moving ship.
There's always delays and
cost overruns in general, [LAUGH] so
I think they were trying to be,
I don't know, sort of forgiving about it.
But that could be on the high end,
like 30% of your time
throughout the whole process.
I mean, it does cost money to do it,
to cost time and money.
I think as developers, there are some
easy wins that we can do that should
just be part of our regular flow and
I don't,
30% of our time that seems a little bit
high if you're doing it all the time,
just as a matter of course, but
it's kind of hard to quantify.
I will say that the cost of not
doing it would be way more.
Like if you have to rebuild your whole
site, how much is that gonna cost?
Or the legal risk or the lost revenue?
So, some of that padded estimates up front
could be like you're trading that time for
not having to redo everything later or
missing out on a huge contract
because your competitor's accessible and
you aren't.
So, kind of put it that way, would you
rather plan it a little bit upfront and
have it go more smoothly or
just go cowboy style and
we're just gonna take a chance and
not do anything.
Unfortunately, I think that's
what a lot of companies do.
But I think there's some easy
wins that we can work in,
even if our broader organizations
aren't quite up to speed yet.
I mean, I'm the sort of like just
do it and ask for forgiveness and
not permission type of person,
but this does take time.
Work is work,
it does take time and effort.
So, we have to find that
balance that works best for us.
Yes.
>> On the team,
I built something that disabled the cursor
on local host on Wednesdays and
it frustrated a lot of people, but
we found and fixed a ton of bugs.
>> Nice, round of applause for that.
[LAUGH] That's amazing.
I actually have a tool that I wrote that's
kind of similar called No Mouse Days.
We might have it in the slide somewhere,
but there is a tool that basically
is that same idea of having a package that
would automatically hide your cursor,
like this will hide it in CSS in any
site that this package is included in,
if you configure it that way,
but yeah, it's frustrating.
But sometimes you have to take desperate
measures to really get through, so
that's amazing.
Good job [LAUGH].
Okay, so going beyond compliance,
accessibility compliance,
and I have a meme from
Austin Powers of Dr.
Evil going our site is
accessibility compliant.
And I can't tell you how often
I see this as a line item and
a doc of like,
we aim to meet WCAG 2.2 AA and
then there's no literally no
process to actually do it.
Like click events on divs that ship and
I'm the only one in a PR review
going can we change that?
You might be the only one even though it's
like literally in your documentation.
So saying something is compliant and
actually making it accessible
are two totally different things.
And you can say it's compliant,
but it probably isn't.
For one, it might have been for
a short period of time before you
made changes and shipped it again.
So if you had a big audit and it was done
months and months ago, it's probably
not relevant anymore if you're shipping
software regularly because things change.
And so when it was tested to where it is
now, it's probably not the same at all.
So we want to go beyond compliance,
we want to make a good experience and
it's something that we want
to work on iteratively.
We're always, we're improving any kind of
bugs or any kind of software features,
accessibility is just part of
that process all the time.
That's how it's going to
be the most successful.
So, I want to get past compliance,
especially when it comes to the web
content accessibility guidelines,
which are great, but
they're just a starting point.
It's all about, is the experience good?
So, a better way to think about this,
I mentioned it being a constant work in
progress and something that we iterate on,
but it also needs to
be part of the design.
It needs to be part of
your product DNA and
the earlier you incorporate that,
the better.
Mostly because like,
depending on how your work gets done,
design might have been like way
earlier and you can't change it now.
So, if we have issues with contrast or
font readability or
things that are more visual
characteristics, that stuff,
that ship has sailed long ago and
you can only fix so much as a developer.
That's design debt right there
turning into accessibility debt.
So we want to make changes as often and
as early as we can.
If you can put an accessibility
statement on your website,
that could be really helpful.
It gives people with disabilities a way to
contact you if they do have an issue and
it's a really great tool to have to say,
hey,
these are the standards
we're aiming to meet.
We're working on it, you don't wanna
be like, we nailed it, we're great.
Just putting the statement here to say
we're compliant, that's not the goal.
The goal is to say, hey,
this is what we're trying to do.
We're continually working on this,
if you find an issue, please tell us.
Cuz those feedback comments are gifts,
they really are helpful.
And so you wanna give people a way to
email you or chat with you and tell you.
Because they might be in
a combination of browser and
screen reader that wasn't
at the top of your list.
So, maybe they could help you identify a
super blocking issue that you just didn't
know, you weren't aware of.
So, accessibility statements
are really great for that.
And then don't stop at tooling,
just like Lighthouse and
AXE saying, okay, zero issues,
100%, you're good.
That may not be the full picture.
There's a great article that I
linked to my slides called Building
the Most Inaccessible Site Possible with
a Perfect Lighthouse Score
by Manuel Matuzovic.
And he highlights perfectly this problem
that you could have a clean bill
of health with an automated tool,
but it could still be terrible.
So there's some links in here
to read a little bit later,
I would like to dive
into actual debugging.
Be ready for that.